README.md, before:

# Book API

A simple RESTful API for managing a collection of books, built with Node.js and Express.js.

Features JWT authentication and HTTPS support.

## Features

- JWT-based authentication using client credentials flow
- CRUD operations for books (currently supports GET and POST)
- HTTPS server with self-signed certificates
- Request logging middleware
- In-memory data storage

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm

## Environment Variables

The application uses the following environment variables:

- `PORT`: Port number for the HTTPS server (default: 9090)
- `HOST`: Host address for the server (default: 'localhost')
- `AUTH_CLIENT`: Client ID for authentication (default: 'client')
- `AUTH_SECRET`: Client secret for authentication (default: 'secret')
- `KEY_FILE`: Path to the private key file for HTTPS (default: 'certs/key.pem')
- `CERT_FILE`: Path to the certificate file for HTTPS (default: 'certs/cert.pem')
- `JWT_SECRET`: Secret key for JWT token signing (default: 'your_super_secret_key')

## Installation

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Generate SSL certificates (for HTTPS):

```bash
npm run generate-certs
```

3. Start the server:

```bash
npm start
```

The API will be available at `https://localhost:9090`

## Docker

The application can also be run using Docker.

1. Generate SSL certificates (for HTTPS):

```bash
npm run generate-certs
```

2. Run the application with Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The API will be available at `https://localhost:9090`

The Dockerfile is provided for building the Docker image.

## Authentication

The API uses JWT authentication. Obtain an access token by making a POST request to `/api/auth/token`:

```bash
curl -X POST https://localhost:9090/api/auth/token \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"grant_type": "client_credentials", "client_id": "client", "client_secret": "secret"}'
```

Use the returned `access_token` in the Authorization header for subsequent requests:

```
Authorization: Bearer <access_token>
```

## API Endpoints

### GET /api/books

Retrieves all books.

**Response:**

```json
{
  "value": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
      "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "title": "Pride and Prejudice",
      "author": "Jane Austen"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/books

Creates a new book.

**Request Body:**

```json
{
  "title": "Book Title",
  "author": "Author Name"
}
```

**Response (201 Created):**

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "title": "Book Title",
  "author": "Author Name"
}
```

## Development

The server includes request logging that outputs to the console, showing request paths and payloads (truncated to 100 characters).

## Certificate Generation

The `generate-certs.js` script generates self-signed SSL certificates for HTTPS support. It creates a private key and certificate pair in PEM format, valid for 10 years. The script checks if certificates already exist and exits with an error if they do, preventing accidental overwrites.

To generate certificates:

```bash
npm run generate-certs
```

This will create `certs/key.pem` and `certs/cert.pem` files.

## Dependencies

- express: Web framework
- jsonwebtoken: JWT implementation
- https: Built-in Node.js module for HTTPS
- fs: Built-in Node.js module for file system operations
- node-forge: For certificate generation
- pem: For PEM format handling
- self-signed: For self-signed certificate utilities

## Credits

This project was created by Filip Golewski with Gemini CLI and Kilo Code assistance.

Commit message:

Development workflow improvements and API documentation

README.md, after:

# Book API

A simple RESTful API for managing a collection of books, built with Node.js and Express.js.

Features JWT authentication and HTTPS support.

## Features

- JWT-based authentication using client credentials flow
- CRUD operations for books (currently supports GET and POST)
- HTTPS server with self-signed certificates
- Request logging middleware
- In-memory data storage

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for version history and release notes.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm

## Environment Variables

The application uses the following environment variables:

- `PORT`: Port number for the HTTPS server (default: 9090)
- `HOST`: Host address for the server (default: 'localhost')
- `AUTH_CLIENT`: Client ID for authentication (default: 'client')
- `AUTH_SECRET`: Client secret for authentication (default: 'secret')
- `KEY_FILE`: Path to the private key file for HTTPS (default: 'certs/key.pem')
- `CERT_FILE`: Path to the certificate file for HTTPS (default: 'certs/cert.pem')
- `JWT_SECRET`: Secret key for JWT token signing (default: 'your_super_secret_key')

## Installation

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Generate SSL certificates (for HTTPS):

```bash
npm run generate-certs
```

3. Start the server:

```bash
npm start
```

The API will be available at `https://localhost:9090`

## Development

For development with automatic reloading on file changes:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This uses nodemon to watch for changes and automatically restart the server.

## Docker

The application can also be run using Docker.

1. Generate SSL certificates (for HTTPS):

```bash
npm run generate-certs
```

2. Run the application with Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The API will be available at `https://localhost:9090`

The Dockerfile is provided for building the Docker image.

## Authentication

The API uses JWT authentication. Obtain an access token by making a POST request to `/api/auth/token`:

```bash
curl -X POST https://localhost:9090/api/auth/token \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"grant_type": "client_credentials", "client_id": "client", "client_secret": "secret"}'
```

Use the returned `access_token` in the Authorization header for subsequent requests:

```
Authorization: Bearer <access_token>
```

## API Endpoints

### GET /api/books

Retrieves all books.

**Response:**

```json
{
  "value": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
      "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "title": "Pride and Prejudice",
      "author": "Jane Austen"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/books

Creates a new book.

**Request Body:**

```json
{
  "title": "Book Title",
  "author": "Author Name"
}
```

**Response (201 Created):**

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "title": "Book Title",
  "author": "Author Name"
}
```

## Development

The server includes request logging that outputs to the console, showing request paths and payloads (truncated to 100 characters).

## Certificate Generation

The `generate-certs.js` script generates self-signed SSL certificates for HTTPS support. It creates a private key and certificate pair in PEM format, valid for 10 years. The script checks if certificates already exist and exits with an error if they do, preventing accidental overwrites.

To generate certificates:

```bash
npm run generate-certs
```

This will create `certs/key.pem` and `certs/cert.pem` files.

## Dependencies

- express: Web framework
- jsonwebtoken: JWT implementation
- https: Built-in Node.js module for HTTPS
- fs: Built-in Node.js module for file system operations
- node-forge: For certificate generation
- pem: For PEM format handling
- self-signed: For self-signed certificate utilities

## Credits

This project was created by Filip Golewski with Gemini CLI and Kilo Code assistance.
